Hello and welcome back,
I am Dr. Rahil Chaudhary.
Eye doctor, Cataract and
Refractive surgeon.
In many videos, we have already
discussed that nowadays...
with a 10 minutes surgery,
you can get rid of your specs.
These surgeries have become
very successful today.
These surgeries include no pain, no injection,
no stitches, no blade,
no cut, no bandage, and no hospitalization.
From the next day of the surgery,
your vision is fine.
After one week of precautions,
the patient can get to their routine.
So, we now understand that specs removal
is not a big deal in today's time.
But the only concern is that
these specs removal surgeries...
are mainly available in private hospitals.
Except for AIIMS, most government hospitals
do not perform these surgeries.
And in private hospitals, these surgeries
are usually a bit expensive.
The cost of these surgeries in case you
remove the specs with a quality surgery like Contoura...
then the cost of such surgeries come
around one lakh for both eyes.
So, patients often ask me if they could get these
surgeries done through government health schemes.
Like can you take benefit of schemes
such as Ayushman Bharat or Golden card...
Or many patients are associated
with government panels...
like some patients are associated with CGHS, DGEHS,
ECHS, ESIC, Haryana government, etc.
So, can you take some advantage of panel benefits?
Some people have health insurance...
or corporate policies and insurance
from the office where they are working for.
Or some people also purchase
personal health insurance.
So, can you benefit from such insurance so that
you get some relief from the cost of these surgeries?
Or can you have the Surgery through
these insurances to avoid an extra cost?
Some people also ask me that
if they have to spend their own money...
then is there any EMI facility available so that
the whole amount is not required to be paid at once?
And can they make the payment in
the installments within 6-12 months?
So, I will discuss with you
all these concerns today.
So, first of all, let's discuss about
Ayushman Bharat or Golden card.
Look, Ayushman Bharat is a great
scheme started by the government.
Families with the poor financial condition
can take benefits from this scheme.
In this scheme, a total of 1350 procedures
are approved by the government...
to be done from only those hospitals
which are associated with Ayushman Bharat.
But unfortunately, the specs removal
laser surgeries...
are not covered in the Ayushman
Bharat scheme.
And they are not covered because these procedures
fall in the category of cosmetic procedures.
Cosmetic procedures mean those
procedures that are not essential.
Patients have these surgeries for appearance
or because they are tired of wearing specs.
Or they it done for convenience.
Because some people want to play sports,
or do adventure activities,
and the specs are bothering
them in their routine activities.
So, for such purposes, a patient
undergo these surgeries.
Unfortunately, in schemes like
Ayushman Bharat or Golden card...
all these procedures are
not approved.
So, many people are associated
with government panels...
like CGHS, Central Government Health Scheme,
DGEHS, ESIC, MCD, Haryana Government, etc.
Different panels operate in our country.
But again, unfortunately, since these
are cosmetic procedures...
even government panels don't
cover these.
However, there is one government panel
which can give you benefits to some extent.
And that is the panel of the Haryana government.
Our hospital is associated with
Haryana government.
And in the Haryana government panel,
for these LASIK surgeries or laser procedures...
you may get the benefit of up to ₹45,000
So, if you are associated with the Haryana
government panel, you can take some benefit out of it.
Some people ask me that there are
many health insurance policies available...
you purchase some policies online
and if you work in corporates, they also provide
you with some health insurance policies.
So, there is a lot of variation
in these policies...
some policies allow your procedure
while some policies don't allow it.
But we see that a majority of policies give
approval for the correction of high specs power.
Like if your specs power is above
-5, -6, or -7...
then some insurance policies
give you the cover.
We also find that some insurance policies
provide you with 100% cover...
some offer 50% cover, some offer
20% cover...
so, all this depends on
what kind of policy you have.
So, if you want to learn more about this then you should
read your policy completely, everything is mentioned there.
If you are facing any confusion, then
you can come to the hospital and discuss it with me.
And I will help you understand how
you can take advantage of these policies.
Next, some people ask me if
there are any EMI options available.
Since these surgeries are expensive, so is it
possible to make the payment in installments?
Like installments of 6 months
or 12 months.
So, yes, this facility is available
in our hospital.
You don't have to pay the entire
amount at once.
You can pay in small, comfortable installments
of 6 months, or 12 months.
Accordingly, you can pay small amounts at
regular intervals and get your procedure done.
So, our hospital is associated with
BAJAJ FINSERVE.
And we can provide more information
about this when you come to the hospital.
So, overall, we can understand that
since these procedures are cosmetic...
people undergo them for appearance or convenience,
these procedures are not medically essential.
So, many government panels, Ayushman Bharat,
or many insurances don't cover these procedures.
Of course, if you are associated with the Haryana panel
or your insurance policy allows it...
or if you are interested in EMIs, then
through these options, you can lessen your burden.
Till then, if you have any doubts,
then you can contact me.
Thank you very much for watching this video
and I will be back very soon.